[THEME MUSIC]
>>And I think many
people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Well, welcome back
to another edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
And you know, by
watching this program,
we deal with a number
of subjects-- mysteries,
conspiracies, you name it, we
cover it on "Beyond Belief",
including how to protect your
life, how to prolong your life,
how to make it a
fulfilling life.
And we're going to do that
this hour with the Ben Fuchs.
He's a registered pharmacist.
He is part of the steer-head
of criticalhealthnews.com,
a website devoted to helping
you naturally with supplements
and special foods.
And I can't think
of a better topic
to talk about with you, Ben,
about longevity and protecting
your own careers and lives.
>>BEN FUCHS: Thank you, George.
I appreciate that.
And as a registered
pharmacist, I
get to see the impact of bad
choices and good choices.
And I get to see how
our disease states, what
we call disease states, or
breakdowns, or degeneration,
is really a function of things
we're doing to ourselves.
And so I've dedicated
my life to helping
people understand how
their actions are affecting
their health and their wellness.
And that's on the negative side.
But on the positive
side, how actions
can help you reverse every
single chronic degenerative
disease you can name.
I should tell you at
this point that there's
a distinction I'm making
between chronic degenerative
disease and accidents
or genetic kinds--
>>NOORY: Things that happen.
>>FUCHS: Right.
We don't often make
that distinction
in the world of health.
Chronic degenerative
disease is, by definition,
a health challenge where your
body doesn't do its healing
business.
Something interferes with
the healing mechanism that's
built into the human body.
You know, every time
you cut yourself,
this little miracle happens
that we take for granted.
You get a paper cut, two
days later, it's gone.
>>NOORY: It's healed up.
It's sealed.
>>FUCHS: George,
this is a miracle.
How the heck does that happen?
All the tiny
biochemical reactions
and chemical
processes, microscopic,
nanoscopic, femtoscopic,
biochemical processes
that have to kick in
for that cut to heal,
it is the most mind blowing
system, mind blowing dynamics,
that you could possibly imagine.
But for some reason, when you
have a chronic degenerative
disease-- and millions
upon millions,
hundreds of millions--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>FUCHS: Right?
Something is interfering
with that system.
Now what's interfering
with that system?
Is it pixie dust that's being
sprinkled on you from above?
Is it some kind of curse that
an evil priest put on you?
>>NOORY: Um, maybe.
>>FUCHS: Probably not.
It's the foods we're eating.
It's the thoughts
we're thinking.
It's the actions we're taking.
The good news is, by changing
the foods we're eating,
changing the actions we take,
changing the thoughts we think
and the feelings we feel, by
using these simple mechanisms
that require no doctors, that
require no medical authorities,
that require nothing outside of
us, our diabetes can reverse,
our cancers can reverse, our
skin diseases can reverse,
our osteoporosis can reverse.
Why?
Because it's built-in.
It's part of the system.
It's inherent to the system.
And it happens
everywhere in life.
If you cut a plant, if you
cut a leaf off of a plant,
what happens?
Not only, George, not only
does the leaf grow back,
it grows back bushier.
You get more.
>>NOORY: It protects itself.
>>FUCHS: You get extra.
So the system is designed
not only to heal itself,
but to get better when
it's under duress.
So if it's not happening,
something's in the way.
Something's interfering.
Something's blocking it.
And if you accept the
premise that our choices,
whether they're actions
or thoughts or thinking
or emotions or foods or
whatever it is, our choices
are what makes us
who we are, then
it's a short leap
to understanding
that our choices,
through the choices
we make-- independent
of outside authorities,
independent of
the medical model,
priests of medicine--
we can heal ourselves.
We can access the healing power.
>>NOORY: There are some people
watching this program right
now, Ben, who are sitting on
a couch, eating potato chips,
drinking carbonated soda,
and they're probably
a little overweight.
Maybe a lot of overweight.
Maybe they're obese.
>>FUCHS: 100 million Americans.
>>NOORY: That's easy
to stop, isn't it?
>>FUCHS: Oh my goodness, George.
It's so easy.
I was just talking
to your producer.
He lost 11 and didn't even try.
As a health care professional,
I get to see people
over and over and over again.
As a presenter, as
a public speaker,
I get to see mass
numbers of people
over and over and over again.
So when I tell you that
diseases can reverse
or that people can lose
weight or that diabetes
can go backwards,
I'm telling this
based on thousands of
people that I've witnessed
over the last 20 years.
>>NOORY: You're not
blowing smoke at us.
>>FUCHS: I'm not blowing smoke.
And it's so easy, George.
A couple things.
It's so easy, number one.
But it happens so
quickly, number two.
You can lose pounds in a week.
You can lose 11
pounds in 20 days,
not even doing
anything difficult.
We're going to talk about
what I call power foods.
By making sure you're
ingesting substances
that are dense with
nutrition, dense with power,
if you will, because that's
what nutrition is, and sparse
on calories, which
represent heat,
you can give yourself
immense amounts
of nutrition, immense amounts
of vitamins, minerals,
and phytonutrients without
burdening your body.
And that's the key
to losing weight.
to getting healthy
from a food and digestive
system perspective.
Now thoughts, emotions,
spirituality--
>>NOORY: They all play a part.
>>FUCHS: All play a part.
But from a physical perspective,
the foods that we eat
and understanding how to
leverage the foods that we eat.
I love that word, leverage.
Because what it means
is taking advantage
of things-- exploiting or
using what things give you.
To me, the greatest invention--
they said the greatest
inventions was the wheel.
I think the greatest
invention was the lever.
Because with the lever, you can
move these huge blocks of stone
with a tiny little push.
And that's what leverage does.
So nutritionally dense
foods give you leverage.
A small amount of a
food like a mushroom
or a small amount of
a food like an olive
will give you the same
potency, the same power,
the same healing ability that
a huge pizza would give you,
and it's costing you hardly
any nutritional, hardly any--
>>NOORY: I know now, every
time I order a pizza back
at the office, let's
say, if I'm staying in,
getting ready for my
show, I'll take two pieces
and give the rest away.
I take it down to our
engineering department.
And I say here's a box.
>>FUCHS: That's
another strategy.
We eat for flavor.
So if you give
yourself flavor, you'll
find that you're eating less
calories and less foods.
And that really is the key.
It's getting the calories down.
>>NOORY: And you feel better.
>>FUCHS: And you feel
lighter on your feet.
>>NOORY: Nothing worse
than feeling bloated.
>>FUCHS: In the
stomach, constipated.
Constipation is
like an epidemic.
And to have all that weight
inside your intestine,
it literally weighs you down.
It makes you feel heavy.
Did you ever have a colonic?
Do you know what that is,
where they Roto Rooter you
from the inside?
>>NOORY: Eh, none
of your business.
>>FUCHS: I'm telling you-- I'm
a health care professional,
we talk about everything--
you feel so light on your feet
when you have your
intestines cleaned.
And you don't have
to have a colonic.
Fast for a day.
People say they can't fast.
You actually feel better.
>>NOORY: Just drink
water, you're saying?
>>FUCHS: Just drink
water or lemon juice.
Or if you want to-- you
probably should be hydrated.
>>NOORY: And
vitamins, supplements.
>>FUCHS: You take
your supplements.
But the point is the
calories are the problem.
And over the last
20 years, George,
what we've done
as a culture is we
figured out how to divorce the
calories from the nutrition.
So we've created thousands
upon thousands of food products
that have plenty of
calories, but they
don't have the nutrition.
Calorie represents heat.
So we have given the
body this massive influx
of heat without the
nutrition that helps
the body process the heat.
So the key to losing weight,
the key to feeling better
from a physical perspective,
from a food perspective,
is to do the opposite,
is to figure out
how you get high nutrient
with low calorie.
And that's where
power foods come in.
A power food-- something
like algae, for example,
or seaweed-- is powerfully
dense with nutritional value.
With vitamins, with
minerals, with proteins,
with essential fats.
And no calories.
>>NOORY: You are a pharmacist.
You went to college to
learn how to mix and match
drugs and dispense them.
Did you make a mistake?
>>FUCHS: No.
As far as the career goes,
here's the thing about
pharmacy-- when you
think about pharmacy,
when the average person
thinks about pharmacy
or the non-pharmacy person
thinks about pharmacy,
they think about the
guy in the white coat,
behind the counter--
>>NOORY: At one of
the big drugstores.
Counting pills.
>>FUCHS: Counting pills.
They call, in pharmacy school,
we call it count, pour, lick,
and stick.
Count the pills.
And we hate that as pharmacists.
Because we didn't go
to school to do that.
>>NOORY: A technician
could do that.
>>FUCHS: Anybody.
A monkey could do it.
The vending machine could do it.
That's what they're
going to have
is a vending machine from now
on doing that, in the future.
So what we all did when
we went to pharmacy school
is we wanted to
manipulate chemistry
to create healing therapeutic
effects on the body.
We wanted to be the chemists.
We wanted to make the stuff.
>>NOORY: You wanted to mix this.
>>FUCHS: Yes.
And throughout history
this is what chemists--
>>NOORY: The alchemist.
The modern day alchemist.
>>FUCHS: That's
what pharmacy was.
Paracelsus, the father of modern
medicine, was a pharmacist.
And he used to mix herbs
in a mortar and pestle.
And that's how they did it.
So when I went to
pharmacy school
and when most pharmacists,
or many pharmacists,
went to go to
pharmacy school, we
went to make the
medicine to do things.
When I graduated pharmacy school
and went to work in drugstores,
I was horrified by what it
was, but it wasn't my intent.
So what I started to do was I
started to apply what I really
wanted to do, which is
making medicine for people,
to the world of nutrition,
to the world of skin care.
And I started formulating
nutritional supplements
and I started formulating
skin care products.
And formulation
isn't exactly making
things in a mortar and pestle.
But it's along the same lines.
>>NOORY: It's close.
>>FUCHS: It's close.
And so that's what I did.
And I used my pharmacy
background, understanding
medicine, understanding herbs,
understanding nutrition--
and by the way,
one of the things
we study in pharmacy
school, believe it or not,
is nutrition.
Except we don't study nutrition
like a dietitian studies it.
We study it like a pharmacist.
We study the medicinal
value of vitamins.
value of selenium,
the medicinal value of
minerals, the medicinal value
of phytonutrients.
How you can use
vitamins and minerals,
we study this in pharmacy
school-- to heal eye problems,
to heal skin problems, to
heal digestive problems.
And what's more, we
study deficiency diseases
as if they were nutritional
deficiency components.
Degenerative diseases.
>>NOORY: There is a guy by
the name of Dr. Joel Wallach.
>>FUCHS: Brilliant man.
>>NOORY: He's a veterinarian,
but he understands nutrition.
He understands it.
He looked at animals
and he figured
humans are the same
way, same complexity.
>>FUCHS: He did autopsies.
>>NOORY: So he
formed Youngevity,
which is part of
criticalhealthnews.com,
and has come up with all kinds
of things to help other people.
Now he speaks all around the
country, Ben, as you know.
And his latest topic is
someone needs to go to jail.
Let's watch a little
clip of Dr. Joel Wallach.
>>DR. JOEL WALLACH: The medical
system hasn't learned anything.
Because we eliminated
that disease in children
25 years ago in China.
In China, these
cardiomyopathy heart disease
that these athletes die from
is called Keshan disease.
This one province doesn't have
the selenium in the soil there
and these kids,
like 13 out of 100,
are dying from
this heart disease
and they're little kids.
So my wife and I
went there in China.
We did 1,200 autopsies on these
kids, kids under the age of 10.
The Chinese government now gives
every kid this trace mineral
when they come to class.
They haven't lost
another kid in 25 years
because the government
makes sure under penalty
of severe punishment if
the teacher fails to give
those kids that pill every day.
Here we have these kids--
we've known this in the animal
industry for 60 years.
For 60 years, we've known the
cause, prevention, and cure
for this disease.
And yet medical
doctors say, well, we
give them electrocardiograms
before each season.
We just need more physicals.
That'll do it.
Well, no, it won't
do it, because they
know nothing about nutrition.
They don't realize
that when you sweat,
you're not sweating out water.
You just drink water,
you're going to die,
whether you're a roofer
in the summertime
and it's 120 degrees
up there on the roof
and you're sweating like a
pig, or you unload trucks,
or you work in a factory or
do physical labor on the road,
or you're an athlete.
If you're sweating, you're
not sweating out water.
Sweat is a soup that contains
all the nutrients floating
around in your blood.
If you're replacing
that soup with water,
what's happening to your
nutritional reserves?
Replacing the soup with water,
your nutritional reserves
go down.
And when you reach a certain
level, below a certain line,
you die.
There's another
19-year-old girl just died
of a copper deficiency.
She's 19-years-old.
Florida State University.
Died of a ruptured
aortic aneurysm, which
is caused by only one thing.
Well, two things.
One, you get crushed
against a loading dock
by truck, or a
copper efficiency.
We learned about that
in turkeys, Scott.
In 1947, we eliminated ruptured
aortic aneurysms in turkeys
in 1947.
So she died of something
a turkey wouldn't even
die from because medical doctors
know nothing about nutrition.
They all should be
put in jail for it.
>>NOORY: He really knows
his business, doesn't he?
>>FUCHS: I call him a polymath,
because Doc doesn't just
understand nutrition.
He understands history.
He understands sociology.
He understands anthropology.
He understands chemistry.
He understands medicine.
He understands
physiology and anatomy.
And he understands nutrition.
And he puts it all together
in his presentations
and in his books
and in his tapes
in a way that's so compelling.
>>NOORY: In his interviews
with me on "Coast to Coast."
>>FUCHS: His interviews with
you on "Coast to Coast."
It is so compelling, you just
can't stop listening to it.
And at the end of the day,
it's not just compelling
and you can't stop
listening to him.
You feel inspired.
You feel hopeful.
>>NOORY: You want to learn more.
>>FUCHS: You feel like your
diabetes is not a curse.
You feel like your health
challenges are not inevitable.
You're not doomed.
And so I actually
started listening
to Dr. Wallach 20 years ago.
I got tapes in the mail.
Those dead doctors-- do you
remember the dead doctors?
>>NOORY: "Dead
Doctors Don't Lie."
>>FUCHS: I started getting
these tapes in the mail.
And I was doing presentations
myself at the time.
And I just stuck
them in a drawer.
>>NOORY: Yeah, who is this guy?
>>FUCHS: Who is this guy?
Right.
And one day I put
the darn tape in
and I start listening and
this guy-- first of all,
he sounds like he's coming
from Mount Sinai on the tape.
He's outside God.
So he's got this
powerful booming voice.
But then he's
talking about things
that only pharmacists know.
He's talking about
mineral deficiencies.
degenerative diseases
as being caused by
nutritional deficiencies.
He's talking about the soil.
He's talking about
glucosamine and chondroitin.
And he's talking about
chicken soup and bone
soup, what I call bone soup.
I'm like, who is this guy?
And the more I
started to study him,
the more I was like, blown away.
And I started to listen to
the tape over and over again.
I start to do my presentations.
I would talk like him.
And then one day I'm
in the gym working out
and I tell my buddy
about the tape
that I've been listening to
and this guy Dr. Wallach.
And he looks at me and he
goes, I know Dr. Wallach.
>>NOORY: Like personally?
>>FUCHS: Like personally.
Are you kidding?
This was the '90s.
And a doc was traveling
around the country,
as he still does today, and
he was preaching the gospel
basically.
He'd been coming to
Denver on a regular basis
and so my buddy knew him.
He says, do you want
to meet Dr. Wallach?
I'm like, are you kidding me?
Do I want to meet this guy?
>>NOORY: And that's
how that happened.
>>FUCHS: And that's
One day I'm in my lab and Dr.
Wallach walks in, sure enough.
And we hit it off.
And I'd been listening
to his tapes.
So when I was talking
to him, he thought
he was talking to his
doppelganger or something,
because I was repeating
back everything.
>>NOORY: A young version of him.
>>FUCHS: And we hit it off.
And then I'd start
doing his radio show.
And then I started becoming
involved with this company.
And he's one of my
nutritional mentors,
one of my nutritional heroes.
And I believe in
the coming decades
when we look back on Dr.
Wallach and Dr. Wallach's work,
we'll tell people about him.
He'll be this
mythological figure.
>>NOORY: He'll be a
historical person.
Exactly.
Ben, I just read
where scientists
are working on more
topical solutions
to make the hair grow faster.
But what about foods?
>>FUCHS: Oh, yes.
Absolutely.
In fact, you could evidence
how healthy somebody
is by their hair.
Because when the
body's deficient,
it's going to pull nutrients
away from parts that it doesn't
consider as important
and redirect them
to the parts of it does
consider important.
So the first place you'll
notice deficiencies in nutrition
are the nails, the
hair, and the skin.
And a good skin
care professional
or a good physician
for that matter
will look at somebody's
nails, skin, and hair
and make a general assessment
on how healthy or not healthy
that person is.
I always look at the nails.
Nice nails.
>>NOORY: Nails OK?
Skin?
>>FUCHS: Skin is good.
Hair is good.
Doing good, George.
>>NOORY: Little tinted.
>>FUCHS: You must
know something.
You must know something.
No, but you've got a
nice strong head of hair.
And so the point is
a very good point.
There's a lot of
nutritional things
that you can do for the hair.
First thing, the
digestive system.
In fact, George, it
always the first thing.
>>NOORY: Probiotics?
>>FUCHS: Probiotics
and glutamine
and less food and drinking water
with your meals and apple cider
vinegar and digestive
enzymes, lecithin.
There's a whole
slew of things you
could do to improve digestion.
Think about it.
As important as nutrition
is, if you're not
absorbing out of the gut,
what the heck good is your--
>>NOORY: It's not working.
>>FUCHS: Exactly.
Not only that, but a lot of
poison enters into the blood
through the digestive tract.
In fact, if I had to
tell you the number one
cause of disease,
degenerative disease,
the number one cause--
it's dirty blood.
I wrote a post on Critical
Health News about that.
Dirty blood.
>>NOORY: Self-induced
dirty blood.
>>FUCHS: Self-induced.
If you talk to
doctor, physician,
and you ask about the
leading cause of death
in hospital settings,
he'll tell you
about something called sepsis.
What is sepsis?
>>NOORY: Once you get
that, you're in trouble.
>>FUCHS: Right.
ICU.
You're in serious trouble.
So what is sepsis?
Dirty blood.
Now, they'll tell you it's
life threatening, which it is.
>>NOORY: It's an
infection, isn't it?
>>FUCHS: Basically it's an
infection, bacterial infection,
in the blood.
But there's something called
sub-clinical sepsis, which
is dirty blood that's
not significant enough
to land you in an ICU,
in an emergency setting.
But it's gradually
getting dirty.
It's on a continuum.
So you start off with a
little dirty blood, then
a lot of dirty blood,
then more dirty blood.
Eventually when the
blood becomes dirty--
and the Bible says
the blood is the life.
Because the blood is touching
every single part of the body.
So when we have
the disease state,
it doesn't matter whether it's
on your head or on your foot
or in your pancreas
or in your liver.
What matters is the part
that all these systems have
in common, which is the blood.
So you gotta clean the blood.
How does the blood become dirty?
Through the digestive system.
So the digestive
system has two roles
to play when it comes to health.
Number one, nutrient absorption,
because if you're not
absorbing, it doesn't
do you any good.
And number two, by its
proximity to the blood.
The vast majority
of the blood comes
through your digestive tract.
And if you have any kind of
leakage, leaky gut, where
the intestines are
starting to break down
and things are getting into
the blood inappropriately,
you're guaranteed
to eventually end up
with some kind of
degenerate disease.
>>NOORY: Wow.
That's scary.
What is Western medicine?
>>FUCHS: Well, when people
talk about Western medicine,
they usually mean it as
distinct from Eastern medicine.
And Eastern medicine
is a type of medicine
that recognizes there's
more to the physical world--
Eastern philosophy in
general-- recognizes
there's more to
the physical world
then just what we can
see with our eyes.
That's what Eastern philosophy
and Eastern medicine is about.
Western medicine, on the
other hand, is about this.
The material world.
>>NOORY: Pharmaceuticals.
>>FUCHS: In terms of
medicine, it's about drugs
and it's about surgery
and it's about cutting
and it's about radiating.
It's about working with what
we can see with our eyes.
Now as far as the distinction
goes, they're both important.
If you get hit by a car, if
something drops on your head,
you don't care
about your chakras.
You want somebody
to stitch you up.
>>NOORY: That's right.
And fast.
>>FUCHS: And fast.
And if you're in pain, you don't
want somebody chanting over
you, you want a
friggin' pain pill.
You want to be out of pain.
So Western medicine
really has a place.
But where it
doesn't have a place
is when it comes to
how we live our lives.
And as we were saying earlier,
chronic degenerative disease
is about how we live our lives.
And so Eastern
medicine has a place
when it comes to more long
term kinds of health issues.
Western medicine has its
place when it comes to acute.
>>NOORY: Have you used
some of Western medicine?
>>FUCHS: Great question.
I love that question.
Praise God, I don't have
any medical problems,
so I haven't had to go to
a medical doctor for blood
pressure or for diabetes
or anything like that.
However, I used to
play baseball a lot
and I had several major injuries
to my knees and to my ankles.
I don't know if you ever
tore your knee up, George--
>>NOORY: No.
Thank god.
>>FUCHS: Let me
tell you something--
>>NOORY: I've been very lucky.
Played a lot of sports, but
I never really got hurt.
>>FUCHS: You're blessed.
Because when you hurt your
knee or you tear up your knee,
it is indescribable
what that's like.
And I went and had
my knee surgery.
And they were wheeling me
out of the operating room.
I'll never forget this.
The pain was so intense,
George, that there
was a voice coming in the air.
It was my voice, but it
didn't seem like my voice.
And it was saying
morphine, give me morphine.
And it was just
out of my control.
And I wasn't saying vitamin
C. I wasn't saying protein.
>>NOORY: You wanted
pain-killers.
>>FUCHS: I wanted pain pills.
And I always, to this day, I
tell people, keep some pain
pills in your medicine cabinet.
You never know when you're
going to need some pain pills.
>>NOORY: See, I am obsessed
with not using pain pills.
>>FUCHS: You're a strong man.
>>NOORY: I will take the
pain and fight it out.
I'll take a little aspirin.
>>FUCHS: You understand
the mind, though.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>FUCHS: Ultimately, the
mind can control everything.
They do hypnosis, they deliver
babies, they cut off limbs.
The Chinese used to do major
surgery under hypnosis.
So yes, you as an aficionado
or connoisseur, if you will,
of the mind, you
understand that all pain
is derived from the mind.
The pain isn't here.
The pain is here.
And this is where
we have control.
But for people who don't
have that kind of control,
Western medicine's ability to
manipulate pain and get people
out of pain is unparalleled.
And Western medicine's
ability to stitch people up,
it's miraculous
what they can do.
For the long term, chronic
degenerative diseases,
which, George, make up 80%
of our health care issues.
>>NOORY: That's huge.
Huge.
>>FUCHS: Huge.
These are lifestyle issues
that involve, as we said,
spirituality, mentality,
emotions, food, nutrition,
movement, exercise.
And that's where
Eastern medicine really
excels in distinction to
Western medicine, which
is a complete and
utter failure when
it comes to how it addresses
these kinds of health issues.
Plants make female hormones.
Why would a plant
make a female hormone?
It is the coolest thing why a
plant makes a female hormone.
>>NOORY: That is.
Why would a plant--
>>FUCHS: Why would a plant
make a female hormone, right?
This is how brilliant nature is.
A plant, like every
other living thing,
has one primal directive--
to live and to give birth.
>>NOORY: To reseed.
>>FUCHS: To reseed.
Exactly.
So plants will
make phytoestrogens
because estrogen is a
birth control for rabbits.
Estrogen functions to shut
off the ability to conceive.
That's why we use it
in birth control pills.
So phytoestrogens
are made by plants
as chemical warfare
against the rabbits
and the plants that would
dare to eat the plant.
But not for the rabbit
itself, but for the rabbit's
future generations.
How cool is that?
>>NOORY: Plant thinks
that far out, huh?
>>FUCHS: The plant
thinks that far ahead.
That's how brilliant nature is.
>>NOORY: See, for
a lot of people
who are vegans, if they only
knew plants are real and aware
of being eaten.
>>FUCHS: It might be different.
Not only that--
>>NOORY: They'd
starve themselves.
>>FUCHS: Plants don't
want to be eaten.
And by the way,
there's no toxic meat,
but there's plenty
of toxic plants.
There's plenty of toxic--
>>NOORY: Yeah, you get the
wrong mushroom, for example.
>>FUCHS: Mushroom, for example.
I talked to people all the time.
They're like, oh--
they have arthritis
or they have
inflammatory diseases.
And they say, oh, but I
only eat organic vegetables.
I only eat salads.
I'm like, it could
be your tomatoes.
It could be your potatoes.
It could be your lettuce.
It could be your broccoli.
You never know.
>>NOORY: Could be anything.
>>FUCHS: Anything.
So plants make their
own chemical weaponry.
But one of those
chemical weapons,
or a class of those
are called phytoestrogens.
And they have wonderful effects
for the hair and for the skin.
>>NOORY: Phytoestrogens.
And how do you know where
to get a phytoestrogen?
>>FUCHS: You've got to
listen to guys like me
talking about phytoestrogens.
But the most common ones
are going to be legumes,
soy is the most famous of--
>>NOORY: Beans.
>>FUCHS: Beans in general will
happen phytoestrogens in them.
Herbs like red clover
and red raspberry.
There's a wonderful herb--
>>NOORY: I must have too many
phytoestrogens in my diet.
>>FUCHS: Well,
your hair's great.
>>NOORY: But look at my
eyebrows, for crying out loud.
>>FUCHS: You probably have
bushy eyebrows, right?
Well, they're not bushy now.
But they're probably bushy.
Because you have a healthy
set of hair on your head.
And that's a sign of a
vitality, a sign of masculinity,
by the way.
>>NOORY: I've seen some
guys with eyebrows that
are like grown over their eyes.
They have to comb them back.
>>FUCHS: I had a girlfriend who
told me I had bushy eyebrows.
I didn't know people
look at your eyebrows.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
They do.
Let's look at some of the foods.
Turmeric, of course,
is one of my favorites.
I have talked about this
on my radio show for years.
Might have been the first
radio host to bring it up.
What's it do?
>>FUCHS: Turmeric is
ridiculously important.
You know what the coolest thing
about turmeric is, George?
Is that beautiful or what?
>>NOORY: Looks beautiful.
It's great.
Let me show that color.
>>FUCHS: Smell it.
Isn't that delicious?
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
Absolutely.
>>FUCHS: You know what's
cool about turmeric?
>>NOORY: And they
grind it up, right?
>>FUCHS: Grind it up.
They make curry
powder out of it.
But wherever you see
colors in nature--
>>NOORY: Curcumin.
>>FUCHS: Curcumin, that's
the active ingredient.
Curcuminoids, they call them.
So here's the cool
thing about nature.
You know how there's
color everywhere?
Greens, and blues, and yellows.
>>NOORY: It's gorgeous.
Peppers.
Yellows.
>>FUCHS: It could
be black and white.
Why do we have all these colors?
What's the purpose of color?
Color is actually an
electromagnetic transducing
device that turns or helps
turn the sun into matter.
>>NOORY: Who would
think of this?
>>FUCHS: It's amazing.
So when you eat this orange,
it helps your body process
electrical energy,
especially in your skin,
where it acts as an anti-cancer
tool, anti-aging tool.
>>NOORY: Anti-inflammatory.
>>FUCHS: Anti-inflammatory.
This is probably the most
medicinal of all the--
that's saying something--
medicinal of all
the plant/herbs
that you can ingest.
But a scientist back in the
'70s did some researcher
and discovered it was
powerfully anti-cancer.
And when the literature
came out all of a sudden
there was an explosion of
research about turmeric.
And now today, it's like
almost every week, you
read another article, you hear
another study, about turmeric.
>>NOORY: I take a turmeric
supplement every day.
>>FUCHS: Very smart.
Very smart.
Well, you know what
you could do now?
Chew on this.
Just nibble on it.
>>NOORY: Just nibble
on it if you need that.
Shave it off, I guess, right?
>>FUCHS: You could shave it off.
But you can-- can I?
I don't want to--
>>NOORY: Go ahead.
You want to eat that?
>>FUCHS: Just nibble.
>>NOORY: Ginger.
Tell me about ginger.
>>FUCHS: Ginger's awesome.
It's in the same family.
You notice how
these look the same?
Kind of the same.
Same family.
>>NOORY: They are.
Very strong root.
>>FUCHS: Ginger's another
one that you can nibble on,
especially if you're nauseous.
For women who have morning
sickness or for hang-overs.
>>NOORY: Did not know that.
>>FUCHS: Powerful
antiemetic, anti-nausea.
Tastes great.
But I love ginger
as a massage tool.
If you just chop it up
and heat it in some oil,
it makes an incredible
warning massage, ginger does.
And of course, ginger tea.
Everybody loves ginger tea.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Garlic, of course.
Keeps away vampires
and what else?
>>FUCHS: Probably.
And heart attacks.
It's incredibly
important for your blood.
And who doesn't like garlic?
I always found it
interesting how--
>>NOORY: All I know is if
you're going on a date,
you both better have it.
>>FUCHS: I was going to say,
why do people not like smell
of garlic?
What is it about that?
>>NOORY: I know.
It's pungent.
>>FUCHS: Is it bad?
It doesn't smell like
it's rotting or decaying.
>>NOORY: No, it's strong.
>>FUCHS: I could never--
I don't have a problem
with the smell of garlic.
But what people are
noticing when they smell
is the smelliest of all
the elements-- sulfur.
And that sulfur is one
of the major reasons
why this stuff is so powerful.
Sulfur is highly
electromagnetic.
>>NOORY: Like eggs.
>>FUCHS: Exactly.
Like eggs, hydrogen sulfide.
In nature, wherever
there's a lot of sulfur,
you're going to have a lot
of electromagnetic energy.
And so garlic is one of the most
highly electromagnetic foods
you can eat.
And this gives it very
important properties
for the circulatory system.
>>NOORY: Very good.
What about the mushroom?
>>FUCHS: There's so many reasons
we could extol the mushroom.
There are some
people who actually
think that the mushroom was
the manna from the Bible.
There are some serious
researchers who believe that.
There's some people who
believe that civilization
started with the mushroom.
You know, they can't
figure out where
those cave paintings came from.
They just appeared, right?
Where the heck did
they come from?
>>NOORY: Somebody did it.
>>FUCHS: But all
of the sudden, how
do they get the
idea to cave paint?
Well, this guy-- have you ever
talked about Graham Hancock?
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
As a matter of fact, he's
been on my program many times.
>>FUCHS: He says it was this.
He said somebody ate--
>>NOORY: A magic mushroom.
>>FUCHS: He says somebody
ate a magic mushroom.
Now I don't know
whether-- it's a theory,
and it's a legitimate theory.
But the point is that the
relationship between mankind,
the development of mankind,
civilization and the mushroom,
is inextricably connected.
Now as far as health
goes-- now you've
got to be careful because
they're medicinal,
so they will also be toxic.
And a lot of mushrooms--
mushrooms can kill you.
However, from a healing
and therapeutic standpoint,
it's hard to come up
with a food that's
got more medicinal
value than a mushroom.
For fighting cancer,
for helping your heart,
helping your cholesterol
levels, for your skin.
You can crush up mushrooms,
make mushroom powder,
and use a mushroom mask.
For your digestive tract,
unbelievably important.
And we were talking
earlier about power foods.
Super low calorie.
Super high nutritional
value, especially,
by the way-- what
do you think of when
you squeeze the mushroom?
It's like a joint.
It's like cartilage.
Especially for your
joints and for your--
>>NOORY: I like that.
>>FUCHS: Speaking of--
>>NOORY: Hyaluronic.
>>FUCHS: Very nice.
>>NOORY: What is it for?
>>FUCHS: Everything.
Wherever you have
connective tissue,
you will benefit
from hyaluronic acid.
You ever see the body's exhibit?
>>NOORY: We used to inject
them in horses that were sore.
>>FUCHS: For the joints.
That's connective tissue.
Absolutely.
Women will put it in
their face for wrinkles.
It's connective tissue.
You ever seen the
bodies exhibits?
>>NOORY: Is it like Botox?
Botox is a bacteria--
>>FUCHS: That's more
like-- it's a paralyzer.
Yes.
It's a toxin from botulism.
>>NOORY: I'd rather
use that, right?
>>FUCHS: Heck yes.
Of course.
But the thing about nutrition
is it's not instant.
That's the one
downside on nutrition.
>>NOORY: It takes time.
You've got to build it up.
>>FUCHS: It takes a certain
amount of time for building.
A couple weeks.
Not a long time.
>>NOORY: But once you're in
the system, once you're there--
>>FUCHS: It's on its own.
A perpetual motion machine.
So you ever see
the Bodies Exhibit?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>FUCHS: So you see all
these flesh things--
>>NOORY: I just hope I
never become one of the--
>>FUCHS: I know.
Nobody even wants
to think about it.
Well, nobody wants
to think about it,
but that's what we are.
Underneath this mask of skin,
we are just this tissue.
Steak.
Beef.
Well, that beef is
called connective tissue.
It's actually a blend of
connective tissue and muscle
tissue.
And it's the vast
majority of our body.
80% of our body is this stuff.
If you could figure out a way
to eat food or take supplements
that help your body build that
beef to make you stronger,
you won't get prolapses.
You won't get hernias.
You won't get osteoporosis.
You won't get arthritis.
You won't be hunched over--
>>NOORY: Your brain
will be in function.
You won't lose your memory.
>>FUCHS: Well, what
I'm thinking of
is the tissue, the
beef part of us.
We want to understand how
to build our beef if we
want to be anti-aging.
So when we see those
bodies exhibit,
we'll have a big, thick,
robust body, rather than
a little shriveled up one.
What makes your grandmother look
different from a little child
is that her connective
tissue is shriveling.
That's really what
aging's about-- shriveling
connective tissue.
Well, hyaluronic
acid is-- if not
the key component in
connective tissue--
one of the key components
in connective tissue.
And that means when supplement
with hyaluronic acid,
your connective tissue expands.
That means your body's
frame gets bigger.
That means your skin is plumper.
That means your bones are
stronger and more robust.
>>NOORY: You just have that
look, that shine about you.
>>FUCHS: You look powerful
and robust, like a baby,
even if you're 60
or 70 years old.
And that's why I
love hyaluronic.
>>NOORY: Ben, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Really appreciate it.
Great information.
And if you want
more information,
just simply go to
criticalhealthnews.com.
There's even a toll free
number that Ben has set up
and that's 1-855-949-RADIO,
or 949-7234,
where you can get all the
information on how to take care
of yourself.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]